---
title: "Calendar.org"
author: ["Shahin"]
description: "A simple approach to tracking the daily occupation using Org-Mode."
date: 2025-03-11
lastmod: 2025-03-19T13:59:20+01:00
tags: ["emacs", "org-mode", "org-roam"]
categories: ["Quick Tips"]
draft: false
---

## My Journey with Org Roam Journals {#my-journey-with-org-roam-journals}

It's a while now that I'm trying to use [Org Roam](https://www.orgroam.com/)'s journal to track my
plans. For each day, I'll have a separate dated file, which I can open
with a quick key combination, and if I need some info from other days,
I'll use my project management tooling like [consult-ag](https://github.com/yadex205/consult-ag) to find what I
need.

This is of course not only for planning. I was using this setup, to
also take notes, related to each piece of work, so I could also
reflect on them relatively. But it was starting to feel cluttered, and
more complex than I need it to be.


## Discovering Calendar.txt {#discovering-calendar-dot-txt}

Then I came across [calendar.txt](//terokarvinen.com/2021/calendar-txt/). The idea is super simple and
brilliant. Every day is a row in a text file, and using some code to
indicate different type of activities. It's mainly optimized to be
usable via terminal and so to say, `grep`-able.

It's fun, but I'm not very good at remembering acronyms and names, and
prefer a more descriptive way. So, I thought how hard it could be to
recreate this in [Org](https://orgmode.org).


## Calendar.org Implementation {#calendar-dot-org-implementation}

So, basically, I need:

```text
* [2025-03-10 Mon]
```

And then I need to repeat this pattern for some times, let's say a
year, so:

```text
M-x org-clone-subtree-with-time-shift (C-c C-x c)
```

It'll ask for a number of clones (I used 365), and a cycle, which I
used (`+1d`), and as easy as that, the template is ready. Yeah, I was
blown away when I learned about it. This is how it would look like:

```text
* [2025-03-10 Mon]
** Morning routine
  - [X] Meditation
  - [X] Exercise
  - [ ] Review day's priorities

** Work
  - [X] Team standup meeting
  - [ ] Complete project proposal
  CLOCK: [2025-03-10 Mon 09:30]--[2025-03-10 Mon 11:45] =>  2:15

** Evening
  - [ ] Read chapter of current book
```

So, how would the usability look like. This is of course not following
single line approach, and I can go haywire with it. Screenshot, table,
and everything else that I can embed in my org file, I can have
here. But I can't `grep` it without some solid `grep` kong-fu.

But do I really need it? There are many tools, to optimize the UX, and
the plus side is, when I filter what I'm looking for, I can in-place
update it as well. One interesting functionality which I haven't used
much before, is narrowing. I go to the sub-tree I'm working on,
clock-in (yeah, fancy time tracking), and then `C-x n s` to hide
everything else, so I only see what I want.
